Improvements to release strategy and communication (#436)
kyma-project/community: guidelines/releases-guidelines/01-release-strategy.md

The Release Manager in Kyma takes care of formal security validation activities performed before major releases. The results of these activities influence the release decision. Lack of attention to security topics can result in release delay.

### Critical issues

> Any issues affecting the expected functionality of Kyma should be documented in GitHub for review and planning. Should any of these issues be considered **critical** they should in addition be brought to the immediate attention of the Release Manager.

Author: Whether an issue is critical or not is a matter of fulfilling the criteria and not of somebody arbitrarily suggesting it should be critical...

**Critical issues** are the ones that:

- Render a Kyma cluster unstable/unusable **and** have no workaround
- Cause loss/corruption of data

> - Expose critical security vulnerabilities (CVSS 3 Score 9.0 - 10.0)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Expose critical security vulnerabilities (CVSS 3 Score 9.0 - 10.0).
```

> - Cause tests to fail on any supported environment

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Cause tests to fail in any supported environment.
```

- Cause major impact in any productive environment

Critical issues have to be fixed with priority. They should contain information about the timeline of the fix and the risks which the fix may raise.

> Based on the information above and the time when the issue is found, the Release Manager will decide how to proceed:

Reviewer: or `Based on the critical issue definition`?

> - Wait for the next release for the issue to be included and fixed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wait for the next release for the issue to be included and fixed.
```

> - Include the fix in an ongoing release (cherry-pick)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Include the fix in an ongoing release (cherry-pick).
```

> - Release a patch to fix the issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Release a patch to fix the issue.
```

> In either case, the following criteria must be met before the fix can be released:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In each and every case, the following criteria must be met before the fix can be released:
```

- The issue is properly documented in GitHub, and labeled `priority/critical`

> - It is a correction, not an enhancement

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is a correction, not an enhancement.
```

> - It is a critical issue, as described above

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- It is a critical issue by definition.
```

> - Adequate tests have been implemented to avoid the issue from ocurring again

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Adequate tests have been implemented to prevent the issue from occurring again.
```

> - A fix is readily available and complies with the Definition of Done

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A fix is readily available and complies with the Definition of Done.
```

- two working days for minor releases
- one week for major releases

> All Release Candidates will always be fully tested by all automated and manual tests defined, following the [test strategy](/guidelines/technical-guidelines/07-test-strategy.md). Manual tests are tracked in [this sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ty3OciQzgzv0GagTG2Dku9os2AfMupbGNf8QxjHaO88/edit) for each release candidate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All release candidates must always be fully tested by all defined automated and manual tests, following the [test strategy](/guidelines/technical-guidelines/07-test-strategy.md). Manual tests are tracked in [this sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1ty3OciQzgzv0GagTG2Dku9os2AfMupbGNf8QxjHaO88/edit) for each release candidate.
```

> During the release process, only [critical issues](#critical-issues) will be considered for cherry-picking (as described above). Only when all tests have passed, and no critical issues are blocking the release, will the Release Manager approve the final release to be prepared and published.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
During the release process, only [critical issues](#critical-issues) will be considered for cherry-picking. The Release Manager approves the final release to be prepared and published only when all tests have passed, and no critical issues are blocking the release.
```

If any issue is still blocking the release by the time it should be made available according to the release schedule, the Release Manager will decide to:

> - remove or rollback the change causing the issue

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Remove or rollback the change causing the issue.
```

> - wait for a fix (possibly delaying the release)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Wait for a fix that can lead to a delay in the release.
```

> - skip the release completely

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Skip the release completely.
```

> Such decision will be communicated to the community in the public **release** Slack channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Release Manager communicates such a decision to the community on the public **release** Slack channel.
```

Reviewer: The active voice would help to avoid confusion as to who is responsible for that.

During the execution of a release, all automated end-to-end test scenarios are validated. If any scenario fails, the release process automatically stops and no release is possible.

> The Release Manager notifies the Kyma community on the public **release** Slack channel when a release candidate is available, at which time the community can validate it and provide their feedback. If there are release-related issues identified, the Release Manager decides if any of them is a blocker for the release (see [Critical issues](#critical-issues) above).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Release Manager notifies the Kyma community on the public **release** Slack channel when a release candidate is available, at which time the community can validate it and provide their feedback. If there are release-related issues identified, the Release Manager decides if any of them is a blocker for the release.

 >**TIP:** See the [Critical issues](#critical-issues) section for details.
```
